---
title: RLadies Oslo, Building shiny dashboards - with Aurora and Lene
text: 
location: room "Shell", Ole-Johan Dahls hus
link: https://www.meetup.com/rladies-oslo/events/256431595/
date: 2019-02-04
startTime: '17:00'
endTime: '19:00'

---

**Session leader**: Lene Norderhaug D., Aurora V., Athanasia Monika Mowinckel, Isabelle V.

In this workshop, Aurora and Lene will take us through the steps of building a shiny dashboard. We will incrementally build the dashboard, with explanations throughout to help you understand how the components act together.

At the end of the workshop, you should enough basic understanding of shiny to be able to start building your own shiny dashboard.

About the Shiny R-ladies:

Aurora is a diverse data scientist in NextBridge Anlytics. She works with innovative and demanding analytical tasks, and has also worked with system developement. Her background is from physics and she has a PhD in the field of quantum mechanics and condensed matter physics. She has long experience from teaching in academia and began using R some years ago due to a demand for a shiny dashboard.

Lene is a physicist turned data scientist. After analysing data for LHC injections at CERN she joined Nextbridge Analytics in 2016. She enjoys working on a wide range of projects using data and algorithms. After being introduced to R for the second time and tidyverse for the first time she really got into R and after learning about R-ladies she was a part of starting up R-ladies Oslo.

How to find us: 
Seminar room "Shell", Ground floor. Take the T-bane or trikk to Forskningsparken.


- **Level**: beginner to intermediate
- **When**: 04th February 2019
- **Time**: 17:00-19:00
- **Location**:   Seminar room Shell (ground floor), Ole-Johan Dahls hus, Gaustadalléen 23B · Oslo
- **More information**: https://www.meetup.com/rladies-oslo/events/256431595/

